{{cookiecutter.project_slug}}/WAF.rst, before:

Tips and Tricks for Waf
=======================

Copying files
-------------

Do not use the ``rule`` argument with ``cp`` or ``copy`` as those operations
tend out to be extremely slow. Use one of the following instead.

- To copy a file from the source to the build directory, use

  .. code-block:: python

    ctx(
        features='subst',
        source=ctx.path_to(ctx, 'IN_DATA', 'file.pkl'),
        target=ctx.path_to(ctx, 'OUT_DATA', 'file.pkl'),
        is_copy=True,
    )

- To copy a directory use ``buildcopy`` (`Link <https://stackoverflow.com/
  questions/45652196/copying-multiple-files-in-waf-using-only-a-single-
  target>`_)


Running interactive commands
----------------------------

Apparently, this should be possible with `this <https://stackoverflow.com/
questions/44141704/can-i-run-an-interactive-command>`_. Should test it with the
debug script.


setup.py
--------

Try out using a ``setup.py`` and ``pip install -e .`` so you can execute files
on their own without running into ``ImportError`` with ``import bld...``.

Commit message:

Added tips for compiling documents with Waf.

{{cookiecutter.project_slug}}/WAF.rst, after:

Tips and Tricks for Waf
=======================

Compiling the reports with LaTeX
--------------------------------

1. Compiling pollutes the command line interface. To shut it off, change
   ``prompt`` to 0 in ``src/paper/wscript``. Unfortunately, if an error
   happens, you have to switch back to find the source.
   
2. (Windows) Sometimes changes in the dependencies of the report are not
   recognized and the document is not compiled. Maybe this is related to
   `a similar issue with LatexTools <https://github.com/SublimeText/
   LaTeXTools/issues/884#issuecomment-258092032>`_. In this case, type 
   ``rm bld/src/paper`` to delete all built artifacts.

Copying files
-------------

Do not use the ``rule`` argument with ``cp`` or ``copy`` as those operations
tend out to be extremely slow. Use one of the following instead.

- To copy a file from the source to the build directory, use

  .. code-block:: python

    ctx(
        features='subst',
        source=ctx.path_to(ctx, 'IN_DATA', 'file.pkl'),
        target=ctx.path_to(ctx, 'OUT_DATA', 'file.pkl'),
        is_copy=True,
    )

- To copy a directory use ``buildcopy`` (`Link <https://stackoverflow.com/
  questions/45652196/copying-multiple-files-in-waf-using-only-a-single-
  target>`_)


Running interactive commands
----------------------------

Apparently, this should be possible with `this <https://stackoverflow.com/
questions/44141704/can-i-run-an-interactive-command>`_. Should test it with the
debug script.


setup.py
--------

Try out using a ``setup.py`` and ``pip install -e .`` so you can execute files
on their own without running into ``ImportError`` with ``import bld...``.
